Add React Native 0.86 release blog post (#5121)
facebook/react-native-website: website/blog/2026-06-11-react-native-0.86.mdx

We want to send a special thank you to those community members that shipped significant contributions in this release.

- [Mathieu Acthernoene](https://github.com/zoontek) for edge-to-edge support on Android and StatusBar improvements
- [Rubén Norte](https://github.com/rubennorte) for React Native DevTools performance tracing
- [Jakub Piasecki](https://github.com/j-piasecki) for ShadowTree and Yoga fixes
- [Nick Gerleman](https://github.com/NickGerleman) for Text rendering fixes
- [Peter Abbondanzo](https://github.com/Abbondanzo) for LogBox, ScrollView and Image fixes

## Upgrade to 0.86

:::info

0.86 is now the latest stable version of React Native and 0.83.x moves to unsupported. For more information see [React Native's support policy](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-releases/blob/main/docs/support.md).

:::

#### Upgrading

Please use the [React Native Upgrade Helper](https://react-native-community.github.io/upgrade-helper/) to view code changes between React Native versions for existing projects, in addition to the [Upgrading docs](/docs/upgrading).

#### Create a new project

```sh
npx @react-native-community/cli@latest init MyProject --version latest
```

> 

Reviewer: looks like it shipped with a missing @react-native/ dependency which [broke](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a984fa4e-91cb-4367-9f25-e25eb9ec18db) the Jest config and got removed in [upgrade-helper](https://react-native-community.github.io/upgrade-helper/?from=0.85.3&to=0.86.0) by mistake

Reviewer: idk if worth noting somewhere (or in react-native-community/upgrade-helper?) the user needs to add the devDep manually for now until the fix gets prioritised

Author: I've just merged https://github.com/react-native-community/template/pull/220.

GitHub will automatically redirect all existing URLs, issues and PRs to the new location, so no action is required on your part.

### Edge-to-Edge on Android

React Native 0.86 ships comprehensive fixes for Android 15+ edge-to-edge mode, including when it's enforced by the OS but not explicitly enabled via the `edgeToEdgeEnabled` Gradle property.

Key fixes include:

- **`measureInWindow`** now returns correct coordinates when edge-to-edge is enabled.
- **`KeyboardAvoidingView`** works correctly on Android 15+ with `edgeToEdgeEnabled`.
- **`Dimensions`** window values are accurate on Android versions prior to 15 when edge-to-edge is enabled.
- **`StatusBar`** now supports updating status bar style and visibility while a Modal is open.
- **Navigation bar** contrast respects the theme's `enforceNavigationBarContrast` attribute.

### React Native DevTools Improvements

> React Native DevTools now support **light/dark mode emulation** via `Emulation.setEmulatedMedia`, allowing you to test your app's appearance mode handling directly from the DevTools without changing your device settings.

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't say we need to include this item, but if we want to:

```suggestion
React Native DevTools now supports **light/dark mode emulation** via `Emulation.setEmulatedMedia`, allowing you to test your app's appearance mode handling directly from DevTools without changing your device settings. Use `cmd`/`ctrl` + `shift` + `P` to access from the Command Palette.

As with the web, this is a temporary switch that will reset when DevTools is disconnected.
```

and here's an image

<img width="816" height="226" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7c3bcf63-78f1-410c-b654-bd60cee6bac5" />

- **Pressable `android_ripple`**: The `android_ripple` prop now accepts `PlatformColor`.
- **`Image.getSize` / `Image.getSizeWithHeaders`**: These now return the true source dimensions instead of Fresco's downsampled values.

### Android Networking

- **`OutOfMemoryError` handling**: `NetworkingModule` now correctly handles very large HTTP responses and will not OOM or crash.
- **WebSocket `Cookie` header**: `WebSocketModule` no longer strips a `Cookie` header passed via the WebSocket constructor's `headers` option, allowing authentication cookies to be sent over WebSocket connections.
- **Blob content provider with New Architecture**: The Blob content provider (used for `blob:` URLs to access binary data) now works correctly with the New Architecture.

## Acknowledgements

React Native 0.86 contains over 596 commits from 97 contributors. Thanks for all your hard work!

{/* alex ignore special white */}

We want to send a special thank you to those community members that shipped significant contributions in this release.

- [Mathieu Acthernoene](https://github.com/zoontek) for edge-to-edge support on Android and StatusBar improvements

> - [Rubén Norte](https://github.com/rubennorte) for React Native DevTools performance tracing

Reviewer 2: Not explicitly launched/touched in this release.
```suggestion
```

- [Jakub Piasecki](https://github.com/j-piasecki) for ShadowTree and Yoga fixes
- [Nick Gerleman](https://github.com/NickGerleman) for Text rendering fixes
- [Peter Abbondanzo](https://github.com/Abbondanzo) for LogBox, ScrollView and Image fixes

## Upgrade to 0.86

:::info

0.86 is now the latest stable version of React Native and 0.83.x moves to unsupported. For more information see [React Native's support policy](/releases).

:::

#### Upgrading

> Please use the [React Native Upgrade Helper](https://react-native-community.github.io/upgrade-helper/) to view code changes between React Native versions for existing projects, in addition to the [Upgrading docs](/docs/upgrading).

Reviewer 2: **Optional**: Shall we continue to promote the `/upgrade-react-native` skill (essentially instructs agents towards Upgrade Helper).

https://www.skills.sh/react-native-community/skills/upgrade-react-native
